<h3>vbmSetDisplayMode( [byte] );</h3>
<ul>
    <li>[byte] - (0)=20 or (1)=19 display mode</li>
</ul>


<h3>Description</h3>
<p>Set up the Vic Bitmap Mode (VBM) with either 20 or 19 displayed columns. 8K or more
    of RAM is required to use this mode.
</p>

<p>The display mode needs to be set up before any other VBM command is executed.</p>

<ul>
<li>0 - Display mode 0 creates a full screen bitmap of 20 columns (160 pixels) and 192 pixel rows.</li>
<li>1 - Display mode 1 creates the same size bitmap, but only displays 19 columns on screen.
The 20th column is hidden and can be used for scrolling games.  See vbmScreenShiftLeft and vbmScreenShiftRight.</li>
</ul>

<h3>How it works</h3>
<p>VBM creates a full screen bitmap using 240 (20 x 12) double heigh characters.  This presents a 160 x 192
pixel display on screen.</p>
<p>They way characters are laid out is a little differently to what you may be used to
    on the standard Vic 20 character screen. This is to make manipulating the bitmap
    simpler and easier to understand.
</p>
<p>The first double height character is 16 (a space and ! character) and this is placed
    at the top left of the screen.  Beneath that character 17 is placed (a " and # character"),
    then 18 (a $ and %) and so on unit character 27 (a 6 and a 7 character) which is the 12th character.
</p>
<p>Character 28 (an 8 and a 9) is printed in the next column back at the top. This pattern is
    repeated, filling each column in turn until all 20 columns have been populated.
</p>
<p>Try the following code snippet to see the character pattern created on the screen:</p>
<code>
    vbmSetDisplayMode(0);
    vbmDebug(1);
</code>
<p>vbmDebug with a parameter of 1 will show the original ROM character set.</p>

<h3>Screen and Character memory</h3>
<p>The Vic 20 is set up to have both the screen memory and character memory start at
    address $1000 (4096).  It is also set to use double height characters which allows
    the screen memory to be completely filled with 240 characters.
</p>

<h3>$1000 to $10FF</h3>
<p>The screen memory occupies $1000 through to $10FF.  $1100 through to $1FFF is
    therefore free for the bitmap.</p>

<h3>$1100 to $1FFF</h3>
<p>The character memory occupies $1000 through to $1FFF, however, as this overlaps
    with the screen memory, the first 256 bytes cannot be used.  This is why the
    first character printed to the screen memory is number 16 (space and !) and not number 0.
    The usable character memory therefore starts at $1100 (character 16) and this
    extends to $1FFF.  Writing to this area of memory will modify the bitmap.</p>
    
<h3>Working with the bitmap</h3>
<p>You are free to write your own routines to modify the btimap memory ($1100 through
    to $1FFF) should you wish to.  However, in Turbo Rascal, there are a number of
    commands that make some common bitmap tasks easier to do, so you can concentrate
    on creating your game or demo.
</p>

<h3>Example</h3>
<p>The following code sets up the Vic Bitmap mode, clears the screen and initialises 
    color memory with green, then writes a message to the screen over a number of lines.
</p>
<code>
    program HelloWorld;
    var  
    
    // declare all your include files here
    font: incbin( "font8x8.bin", $4000 ); // character set for first 64 PETSCII Screen Codes
    
    
    @startblock $2000 "CODE"
    // declare all your variables and procedures here
        message: CSTRING = "HELLO WORLD";
    
        i : byte;
    
    begin
    
        // set the default display mode showing all 20 columns
        vbmSetDisplayMode( 0 );
        
        // Clear the bitmap with a value of 0
        vbmClear( 0 );
        
        // set the colour memory to GREEN
        vbmClearColor( GREEN );
        
    
        fori i := 0 to 9 do
        begin
        
            // write a message to the screen
            // using the font (character set)
            // params are: text, characterset, x, y, line spacing
            vbmDrawText( message, font, i, i &lt;&lt; 4, 8 );
            
        end;
        
        loop();
    
    end.        
</code>

<h3>See also</h3>
<p>
To find out more, take a look through the help file for any commands beginning with 'vbm'.
Some useful commands to get started are:
</p>

<ul>
    <li>vbmDebug - switch off the bitmap to reveal the ROM characters used to fill the screen</li>
    <li>vbmSetColumn - set the built in screenmemory zero page pointer to the address for a column from 0 to 19. This is used for Tile commands and others.</li>
    <li>vbmNextColumn - add 192 to the screenmemory pointer - effectively goes to the next column</li>
    <li>vbmSetPosition1, vbmSetPosition2 and vbmSetPosition4 - used to set the position to draw a sprite</li>
    <li>vbmClear - clear the bitmap memory with a byte value, usually 0</li>
    <li>vbmClearColor - clear the color memory with a value</li>
    <li>vbmDrawTile - Draw a single 8x8 tile character on the screen. Use with vbmSetColumn and manipulation of the screenmemory pointer</li>
    <li>vbmDrawTileMap - Draws a tilemap of characters of any size to the screen</li>
    <li>vbmTestPixel and vbmTestPixel2 - Test a pixel value at a position on the screen</li>
    <li>vbmTestTilePixel and vbmTestTilePixel2 - Test a pixel value within an 8x8 tile. Can also be used with sprite slices</li>
    <li>vbmDrawDot and vbmDrawBlot - draw dot pixels on the screen</li>
    <li>vbmScrollLeft and vbmScrollRight - rearrange the characters on screen to quickly scroll 8 pixels left or right. Note that there are some restrictions when using this feature</li>
    <li>vbmScreenShiftLeft and vbmScreenShiftRight - scroll an area of the screen 1 pixel at a time - slower than vbmScrollLeft/Right but no restrictions on use</li>
    <li>vbmSpriteShiftL, vbmSpriteShiftR and vbmSpriteStitch - prepare pre-shifted characters for use with the sprite commands</li>
    <li>vbmDrawSprite8 and vbmDrawSprite16 - simple sprite drawing commands</li>
    <li>vbmDrawSpriteSlice - complex sprite command giving precise control and allowing for sprites of any size</li>
    <li>vbmDrawText - draw text to the screen</li>
    <li>vbmDrawBCD - draw numbers (eg: scores) to the screen. Use with the BCD commands</li>
</ul>

<p>More commands will be added over time. If you create something that you think would
    work well as a new command, please let me know: <a href="mailto:andy@hewco.uk">andy@hewco.uk</a>
</p>
