# TimTris v0.9

This repository contains source code written in [TRSE](https://lemonspawn.com/turbo-rascal-syntax-error-expected-but-begin/) by Nicolaas Groeneboom.
<p>
TimTris is a Tetris clone for TIM-011, school computer from Ex-Yugoslavia. Original Tetris is by Alexey Pajitnov.
<p>
Game uses graphics libraries written by me, and file libraries partially adapted from MESCC code by Miguel Garcia Lopez, both part of TRSE.
<p>
PTX Player is by S.V.Bulba, adapted to TIM-011 by Marko Šolajić. To compile it, you'll need [ZASM](https://k1.spdns.de/Develop/Projects/zasm/Distributions/).
<p>
"Tetris 2 Red Dawn" music is by Frantisek Fuka.
<p>
Many thanks to Marko for helping with various TIM stuff and Mićko for TIM-011 MAME emulator!
<p>
## Requirements
<p>
Working TIM-011 (there maybe 10 or less left in the world, so not a huge crowd) with AY sound card (needed if you wan to hear music).
<p>
Oooor...
<p>
MAME emulator, compiled from latest GitHub source, version 0.263 or later.
<p>
## Running
<p>
On real machine, after boot, type <r> <Return> to start it, and switch to lower case letters if needed.
<p>
On emulator, run it with:
<p>

mame tim011 -window -v -r 720x512 -switchres -exp ay -flop1 <image_name>.img

<p>
and do the same as on a real machine.
<p>
NOTICE: Computer needs around 30-40 seconds before anything shows on screen, so be patient!
<p>
## TODO
<p>
* File library still cannot save content, needs debugging/fixing (so high score cannot be saved)
<p>
* Adjustments to graphics (mostly cropping)
<p>
* Adding cursor keys as input (not yet fully supported by emulator)
<p>
* Game sometimes freezes/exits, but that one is so far observed only in emulator, not on real machine, needs more investigating

