<h3>Description</h3>
<p>Preprocessor that exports a TRSE Level Editor file (.flf) to binary on build.</p>

<h3>Example</h3>
<p>Use to export all or parts of a level editor file into raw bin (binary) files.
</p>

<h3>Parameters</h3>

<ul>
    <li>"source.flf"</li>
    <li>"destination.bin"</li>
    <li>Level number to export</li>
    <li>Number of levels to export</li>
    <li>Export type - 0=level, 1=colour, 2=extra data, 3=all</li>
    <li>Column char to start exporting (eg: 0)</li>
    <li>Row char to start exporting (eg: 0)</li>
    <li>Width in chars to export (eg: 40) or 0 for full width</li>
    <li>Height in chars to expoer (eg: 25) or 0 for full height</li>
    <li>Export order - 0=column order (default), 1=row order (VBM), 2=column order with half height colour, 3=row order with half height colour</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Exporting partial level data</strong><br />
When exporting level data, can choose to export a portion of the level characters defined by the start column and row at a given
width and height.  If column, row, width and height are zero the entire level is selected for export.
</p>

<p><strong>Export type</strong><br />
    If the Export type = 3 all level data is exported in sequence:</p>
<ul>
    <li>Level 1 data</li>
    <li>Colour 1 data</li>
    <li>Extra 1 data</li>
    <li>Level 2 data</li>
    <li>Colour 2 data</li>
    <li>Extra 2 data</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Extra data format</strong><br />
Extra data begins with the background colour and the two aux colours.  Then the extra data defined for the level 
for all rows, one column at a time.
</p>

<p>
    <strong>Export order</strong><br />
    Use 0 for the default column order. This is character 0, 1, 2, 3 and so on on the first row, then 40, 41, 42, 43 and so on.<br />
    For Vic Bitmap Mode (VBM), the row order can be used.  THis is character 0, 40, 80, 120 and so on of the first column, 
    then 1, 41, 81, 121 and so on from the second column.
</p>
<p>
    <strong>Export order - half height colour data</strong><br />
    The Vic 20 has a double height character mode.  To export the colour data at half height (miss out odd rows - half the data), 
    set the export order to 2 or 3.
</p>

<h3>Examples</h3>

<code>
    // export level 0, only 1, type 0 (level data), export 0,0 at smaller size 6x1, in column order 
    @exportframe "level.flf" "sub-level.bin" 0 1 0 0 0 6 1 0
    
    // export level 1-5, type 0 (level data), the whole level data, in column order
    @exportframe "level.flf" "whole-level.bin" 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0

    // export the colour data for level 0
    @exportframe "level.flf" "colour.bin" 0 1 1 0 0 40 25 0

    // export the extra data for levels 0-4
    @exportframe "level.flf" "extra-data.bin" 0 5 2 0 0 0 0 0

    // export all data
    @exportframe "level.flf" "all-data.bin" 0 5 3 0 0 0 0 0
    
</code>