<h3>the "Output" structure</h3>
The "output" structure contains the definitions for the ray tracer image output.
<code>
output = {
        resolution = { width = 12, height=21},
        aspect = 1.0,
        output_type = 1, -- c64 image type
        c64_multicolor = 1, -- use multicolor (half resolution)
        c64_imageType = 0, -- imagetype=0 means charset (4 colors), imagetype=1 means multicolor (16 colors, 4 per cell)
        dither = 0, -- Dither can be 0, 1 (floyd-steinberg) or 2 (ordered dithering)
        -- ditherstrength only works for ordered dithering. x= strength, y and z are scale factors (try it!)
        ditherStrength = { x = 30, y= 1, z= 1},
        -- Use the following indexed C64/PICO8/Amiga colors etc:
        index_colors = { 0,3,1,6 }
}
</code>
<ul>
<li>"resolution" defines pixel resolution, in this example set up as a 63-byte multicolor sprite (24x21 pixels = 63 bytes)
<li>"aspect" is the aspect ratio
<li>"output_type" specifies output type. 0 = regular 24-bit RGB. 1 = C64 format. 2 = Pico8. More to come!
<li>"c64_multicolor" if c64 output format is toggled, then you need to specify whether to use multicolor mode (1) or not (0). In multicolor mode, you have twice the colors - but at half the X resolution.
<li>"c64_imagetype" if c64 output format is toggled, you also need to specify whether to use charset mode (0) or multicolor image mode(1). Charset mode uses 4 colors, where 3 are globals, while multicolor mode will require an additional screen buffer, but can store more individual color information per cell.
<li>"dither" specifies the dithering type. Dither=0 is no dither, dither=1 is floyd-steinberg dithering (with no prameters), dither=2 is ordered dithering with parameters specified in "ditherStrength".
<li>"ditherStrength" is the parameters for the ordered dithering type (dither=2). x is the strength of the dithering, while y and z are x/y scale factors.
<li>"index_colors" is a list of the indexed colors to be used in the scene. The renderer will not use any other colors than specified here, so for instance for c64_imageType=0 c64 charset mode, you need to specify the 4 global colors
that will be used for this scene (in this example: black, cyan, white, blue)
